Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from hanselminutes.com it's Hansel minutes
while weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 53. In this
episode, Scott talks with award-winning
animator, Rachel neighbors about the
current state of web animation.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm talking
with animations expert, Rachel Nabors.
Hi. Hi Scott. How are
you today? I am very
well. And so happy to
be talking to you in
our home of Portland, Oregon,
Portland, the dream of the
nineties is alive and well
here. It's true where young
people go to retire. I
don't feel like I've retired
yet, but maybe one day.
Well, you're doing some amazing
stuff. You've got kind of
an animation think tank going
on here in Portland. It's
true. I actually moved to
Portland to start my company
tin magpie, which basically when
I started it, I said,
I want to do something
that involves animation all the
time. Cause I'm kind of
a web animations wank. And
once I fell in love
started seeing the specs that
were coming out in the
night lease. I just couldn't
keep away from it. I
started back in comics way
back in the day and
ended up in web comics,
which ended up in web
design, which ended up in
front end development. And now
I'm here with animation. I've
been here, there and everywhere,
and I've learned so much
over the years. It's time
to start sharing When you've
been doing animation for like,
you know, 15 years. I
mean, I've done a couple
of code pens and I've
played around with animation, but
you've got a decade and
a half of experience in
this space. Well, it's true.
I started out actually in
comics, making cartoons and I
had a very popular weekly
cartoon amongst teenage girls right
up until I quit the
industry in 2007, 2008, I
won an award. And the
first thing I did was
like, I'm changing industries. I'm
going to web development. See
you guys later. Bye. I
feel like such a bad
person for doing that. Sometimes
award winning, you know, as
soon as I get my
Oscar, I'll be like, I'm
done acting. I made my
point, Oh my God, Scott,
you better never stop acting.
I want, I want to
be like Whoopi Goldberg, like
just get one of each,
what is it called? The
EGOT, Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, Tony,
and then just quit the
industry and just say, I
win. Yeah, screw you guys.
Go do what I want.
So you're doing, you're doing
animation. And you just mentioned
nightlys when you say nightlys,
you're talking about nightly bills
of browsers as we put
new features in. Yes. And
even do you know, just
some of the things like
with CSS, animations that are
hidden behind vendor prefixes back
in the day, CSS animations
are sometimes only available behind
a nightly builds or now
on a few browsers, you
can use them every day
using a vendor prefix, specifically
iOS Safari store requires WebKit.
So these things are not,
not all of them quite
so esoteric, but when it
comes to one animation tool
in particular, the web animations
API, it's still very much,
most of its best features
are coming out in nightly
builds of Firefox and Chrome.
It's there are some pieces
that you can use in
production, but it's still very
much How many different, like
if I think about the
web as platform, how many
different animation APIs are there?
Cause when you say web
animations API, I'm not sure
I understand that as it
relates to CSS animation, The
one API to rule them
all. So have you heard
of smile? SMI? I have
heard of it. So smile
is a language for manipulating
SVG, right? Right. And CSS
is a declarative language for
manipulating Dom elements, right? And
sometimes SVG cause SVG is
done elements true. Now the
web animations API actually as
an API for manipulating the
rendering engine that performs both
of those animations. So CSS
animations built on the web
animations, API CSS transitions built
on the web animations API.
That's true now. Well, it's
going to be true very
soon. It, this, the API
is still being implemented in
like for instance, I believe
that's true in Chrome and
it's starting to be true
in Firefox. You know, don't,
don't paraphrase me here. People
go out, do your own
research. But when it comes
to things like internet Explorer
and Safari, they have no
support for the, the API.
So transitions, smile, animations, all
of those have their own
separate little modules running their,
their animations. They're not United
under this one API yet.
So is the idea to,
like you just said unite
all of these APIs, and
this is the middle layer.
You said that CSS animations
would be built on top
of this. So it's almost
like as open GL is
kind of like the most,
you know, it's low level
and you build 3d engines
on top of that. But
if, you know, open GL,
you feel comfortable with all
these other different engines. If
I understand the web animations
API I'll feel comfortable, animating
pretty much anything on the
web. Ideally that's how it
will work out. And this
is happening right now as
we speak It is, it
is one, one API to
rule them all. What's really
great about it is it
allows for a lot more.
Now I know we don't
like to talk about flash.
That's still a dirty word,
but flash had a lot
of really cool things going
for, especially in action script
and some of the libraries
like green sock that were
created around it, like tween,
light, et cetera. There were
things like nested timelines so
that you could have multiple
animations running on a, like
dependent on each other's timelines.
Right now that's really hard
to deal with declarative CSS
because everything runs on the
browser's timeline. And there's only
one timeline. This means that
something's a little slow to
load or render. It's completely
out of whack with the
rest of page. So I
did a really cool demonstration
of sinking timelines using the
web animation APIs polyfill and
my latest smashing magazine article,
which is called the state
of the animation, which is
based on a talk that
I gave about animation. And
I'm sure people can find
this online at your site.
Yes. Rachel nabors.com. That's RAC,
H E L N a
B O R S like
Jim neighbors. And I'll put
links to all of this
so that folks are following
along can find those, All
my talks, slides, articles, everything
are at that site. Awesome.
So you said it's a
polyfill for that. So this
means that I can start
thinking about the web animations
API now. Absolutely. The polyfill
was unfortunately, the polyfill is
not nearly as performant as
you would like it to
be in browsers that don't
support the web animation API.
But the point is that
it allows you to start
working with the syntax today
and start figuring out how
say if you're a, if
you're say an animation library
developer, you might use as
polyfill, I mean, you might
use this API to help
increase the speed of your
operations and offer a future
forward compatibility. Maybe you could
put a few things into
context for me because we
understand HTML and the Dom.
I think people who are
listening are that I've gotten
that far. And we understand
when you put, you know,
declarative transforms and animations and
things in CSS where that
lives, and we understand that
JavaScript has API APIs that
allow you to manipulate the
Dom. But when you say
this web animations, API, this
is something that's in the
Dom that I manipulate with
JavaScript or it's in CS,
where does this thing live?
Put it in context of
the other three technologies. So
your browser has a rendering
engine that paints things on
the screen and the web
animations API, actually it kind
of lays bare. The CSS
CSS is rendering engine. Well
the same rendering engine that
SVG animations and CSS uses
it opens it up for
you to manipulate with Java
script. So you can tell
it, you know, I want
to rewind the clock on
all these animations. I want
to, I want to create
a new animation object here.
I want to clone this
one. At this point, there's
all kinds of crazy things
that you can do really
exciting that used to only
be able to do with
something like flash or with
really complex JavaScript libraries. So
they should hopefully take a
lot of the should hopefully
slim down Java script libraries,
animate things and increase performance
across the board. Okay. So
it sounds like these are
fundamental animation concepts, not web
concepts, but like, you know,
atoms at the root of
what this is, how animation
is done. And the web
just didn't have any technologies
to allow you to do
that. And people were making
polyfills because like, Hey, you
know, we really need multiple
timelines. That's how we, we,
those who are in animation
yourself do things, but the
web wasn't coming along for
the ride. No, when we
weren't, we, we kind of
let go of flash a
little prematurely. It was going
to happen. Eventually I did
a lot of research for
that, that article and talk
on the state of the
animation. I spoke with a
lot of people, a lot
of interaction developers who worked
at flash law library developers.
Who've made these, these great
JavaScript libraries for animating things
without flash or with half
the web animations API. And
it, it sounds like flash,
unfortunately was each acted, a
little prematurely, the web wasn't
quite ready to start thinking
about animation. And for a
while, you can definitely see
that web design and development
step back to a more
state-based copy based scenario. And
that's been great. It's been
great for typography typography based
specs for layout specs, but
it means that animation was
sidelined. And in many cases
stigmatized because our community has
this rather clique-ish tendency to
ostracize and make fun of
things deemed unworthy. And as
soon as flash became unworthy,
all the wonderful interaction rockstars
were just kind of, you
know, they're one of their
big tools is being made
fun of at, you know,
the butt of a joke
at every conference ever. It
doesn't really help bring unity
or sharing. So flash went
through In exile. It was,
it was, it was disbanded.
It was cast out, became
the butt of the jokes
at conferences. And that was,
that was hard on the
flash development community. I started
running into people who just
quit web entirely and like
had their midlife crisis and
stopped doing action script and
opened up a motorcycle, a
motorcycle repair shop, true story.
And so unfortunately, because of
flash becoming a dirty word,
the web community has lost
a lot of veteran knowledge
about animation and performance and
the way you code and
write user interfaces and things
for that. And that we
really could benefit from right
now. Okay. These were experts
in animation as a, as
a practice, not flash experts,
Some of them were flashed
experts, but quite few of
them were also experts in
animation and animating things for
the web. The technicalities of
that, both from an aesthetic
perspective, but also from a
very hardcore like performance perspective.
We lost a lot of
niche knowledge by alienating these
people from our community. And
it was very dangerous to
do that. And we probably,
I hope we've learned a
lesson from that and will
not do that to other,
such subsets in the future.
It seems like when we
objected those people, we didn't
have a waiting API ready
for them yet. Like there
wasn't an obvious place for
them to transfer all of
their knowledge. There was no
CSS three yet there was
no CSS animations yet. It's
true. It happened very prematurely.
In fact, the, the iOS
Safari team railroaded their own
and their own syntax for
CSS, animations and transitions specifically.
So people could make websites
for the, for iPhones and
iPads that looked as good
as native apps and the
standards community. Still a little
sore about that. Yeah. So
speaking of the standards community
and what coming you were
at Chrome dev summit. Absolutely.
You're seeing, you're seeing what's
coming and you're seeing the
nightlys or more than the
nineties. It's very exciting. I've
been to a lot of
conferences this year and conferences
are wonderful and I absolutely
love going to them. And
I love hearing what people
are up to, but I
got to say the contents,
usually I'm about six months
behind because this is something,
a project that's been finished
or something somebody started like
months ago. So it's not
exactly the bleeding edgiest of
stuff that person could could
learn about. So it was
really exciting to go to
Chrome dev summit, which is
where Google opens up a
mountain view, a part of
it's mountain view campus invites
all of the people who
love Chrome and build things
for the web to come
listen to the Chrome developers,
talk about what's in, what's
in the hopper. And you
know, the Koolaid is delicious
and I drank quite a
bit of it and it
was tasty. And I think
before it Chrome takes animation
very seriously, which is difficult
because right now the people
who are building browsers, they
all have different interests now
for people like you and
I who building for the
web, and I'm assuming your
listeners, we build things for
the web and you know,
Oh, so and so doesn't,
you know, Safari doesn't have
this API yet Fari, hurry
it up. And it's frustrating,
but you have to remember
where these companies make their
money. Google makes money from
the internet. The more people
who use the internet as
their preferred destination for content,
when they open up their
computers, the more money Google
is going to make. So
it can pour money and
resources onto its Chrome dev
team. And the Chrome dev
summit is sort of like
a showcase of where your
advertising dollars are being Spent.
Here's why more eyeballs will
be on the internet because
of what we're building. And
they are as interested and
excited about animation as I
am. And that makes me
happy because unfortunately like you've
got mozzarella development going on,
right? It's largely driven by
contributions from the open source
community and the web animations
API that I'm so excited
about that has paid developers
working on implementing it in
Chrome. Nightlys well, it relies
quite a bit in mozzarella
on the kindness of C
plus plus developers who are
volunteering their time. And let's
put it this way, C
plus plus developers who have
time volunteer, typically aren't aware
of or interested in animating
the things they, I think
I may have mentioned this
earlier, but the people who
need animation the most are
often the ones who are
the least likely to be
able to implement it on
a code base. So it's
exciting to see what Chrome
is working on. I wish
that some of the things
that they prioritize would be
prioritized in the same way
by other manufacturers of browsers,
such as internet Explorer and
Safari. But you have to
remember that the apples people
behind Safari and Microsoft behind
internet Explorer and their major
revenue doesn't come from making
the web, the number one
destination. In fact, in Apple's
case, you could say that
with their eagerness to have,
have apps, be your number
one source of content, because
it directly makes some money
that having a really nice
browser for people to use
is kind of antithetical to
their, their base. Right? Other
than add to homescreen, there's
little reason for them to
make it easier for us
to make web apps on
Was for exactly What kind
of people did you meet
at the Chrome dev 17,
that, that blew your mind?
Well, I got to meet
my one of the best.
I love a lot of
the people who work over,
over at Google with Chrome,
but I was excited to
meet specifically someone new Roma,
Shaw, the UX lead on
the polymer projects, materials, design,
polymer, polymer. Yeah. Polymer is
kind of, it's a set
of things that Google has
released for people. And I
don't want to go on
about too much because it's
hard for me to phrase
it, but it's there a
bunch of polyfills including the
web animations API is polyfills
sprung forth from this project.
And there are polyfills for
shadow Dom and web components.
And those are all going
to live@webcomponents.org. So there'll be
less conflation of the two
projects in the future. Okay.
Materials design is sort of
like the theme for polyamory
project. You can think of
polymer. Project is to Palmer
project is to building web
apps. What Palmer project is
to building web apps, what
Twitter bootstrap is to building
websites and materials design as
sort of the theme that
Palmer project comes with. Once
again, do your own research.
I'm probably getting it totally
pigeoned here, but this is
how I understood it. After
the Chrome dev summit, it's
all very exciting, but the
materials design is really exciting
because this is the first
time. And at least in
recent record that a large
company has come forward and
made animation, not just, you
know, a part of something
it's building, but a feature
materials, design documentation has an
entire section on meaningful transitions.
And the, the, the interface
is completely animated. And I
got to speak to the
UX lead Roma, the woman
who could speak most to
why it was animated. And
that was, that was really
exciting. It was, it was
exciting to talk with her
because she talked about, she
answered all of my questions
that I asked online. And
she, she said, when asked,
like, what advice should give
people to, to building a
team using animation in an
interface, her response was that
you should exercise deliberateness. They
should be very deliberate about
using animation. And that if
you don't understand why you
should animate something or you
know how you should animate
something, you shouldn't be animating
it, period. So anytime I'm
doing an interview like this,
if we're taking online questions
from people like with Twitter,
I will inevitably get somebody
out there. Who's like, can
you recommend some CSS animation
library? So I can add
some razzle dazzle to my
web pages. I think Roma
would be like, no. So
razzle-dazzle is not the goal.
Razzle dazzle is not the
goal, which brings me to
a thought. I had a
lately we've taught, we're talking
more and more about animation,
which is wonderful. I'm excited
about it. I train people
and companies, teams, how to
use animation for the betterment
of the users. But I
want to make sure that
your listeners have a small
word of warning. Okay. A
lot of rhetoric has been
going around about making things
delightful with animation. And while
it's true, that animation can
be delightful. It can be
delightful in the same way
that a font can be
whimsical or delightful. Ori color
layout can be pleasing. That's,
shouldn't be your first reason
for doing an animation. I
wrote an article for a
list of part where I
outlined six principles of UI
animation. And these are very
important. Like they talk about
like using animation to show
people their location on a
page, progress through a linear
sequence. They're, they're wonderful. You
need to check them out.
I illustrated them all with
animations. Cause you shouldn't write
an article about animation without
animation in it. We appreciate
that. And the fun thing
is that I like to
tell people if you're gonna
animate something, you need to
make sure that it meets
at least two of those
principles. And the third one
can be delight. If something
should first be useful before
it is beautiful. It's a
shaker saying, you know, like
if you make something, how's
it go. If you make
something, it must first be
useful. But if it is
useful, it be why not?
Should it also be beautiful?
So something can be beautiful
if it is useful, but
it shouldn't just exist for
beauty in and of itself.
All things take time. They
take time for you to
build them. They take time
and energy for them to
run. They should have purpose
behind that. I understand that
delightful things may give people
a small little, Oh, how
lovely. But that shouldn't be
the only reason they're there.
And also kind of like
those load screens before you're
playing a video game, they
get old a lot faster.
If a feature only exists
because it's delightful. There's a
good chance. People are going
to want to skip intro
really fast. Absolutely. I've had
a number of times where
it's like the first time
you see that animation, it's
like, Oh neat. And it's
like, Oh, there's that fricking
animation again. It's in my
way. It's that animation is
standing between me and my
task. Exactly. And this is
one of the reasons why
in traditional animation, there's this
wonderful, wonderful saying when it
comes to timing things, because
you've got these animators who
are drawing frame by frame
a person doing something and
they're in this whole other
time-space they're like in time
dilation. And when they have
to figure out how long
should this animation run for
when they finished, you know,
drawing the woman moving from
point a to point B,
how long should this last?
How long do you think
it should last, you have
that time. And then you
have it again. That's how
long it should last. So
if you've got something in
your prototype that looks good
to you at one second
should be running it point
25 seconds. And that is,
that makes it so that
the untrained eye, the person
hasn't been looking at it
for, you know, like days
doesn't actually see it. It
doesn't come out and say,
hello, hi, I'm animating, aren't
you happy? I'm animating front
of you. Look at me
taking you from state a
to state B. It should
get out of their way.
And that usually means a
very quick animation. It seems
like often when I'm on
a smaller device or constrained
device, I can tell that
they wanted an animation to
go a certain way, but
maybe it'll stutter. And it
pulls me right out of
the illusion. They think there's
no way to know if
there's a frame, like how
many frames per second, it's
running. I just know it's
wrong. It doesn't feel right
as a user. Another interesting
thing. So the human eye,
when it comes to a
computer screen, when you're looking
at a film it's about
25 frames per second or
FPS 24, I think is
what? Regular film. Film. Not
digital. Yeah. I like film
at a, at a, at
a beautiful old theater. Like
we have here in Portland.
Yes, I ha. Oh, wonderful.
So, but the on your
computer screen, it's about 60
frames per second to make
people happy. And what's more
though is if you can't
consistently stay at 50 frames
per second, if you've got
big dips going down to
30 frames per second, that
momentary dip, that jank will
totally pop people out of
the illusion. Well, that's called
Jenkins we're term janky. Yes.
That's what we're talking about.
When we say something's janky,
there's jitter stutter on the
screen. So interestingly enough, though,
people's eyes are likely more
likely to pick out a
difference in frames per second,
than they are to notice
a lower frame per second.
For instance, you could give
someone an animation, if you
could somehow sense. I'll talk
about this in a moment.
If you'd somehow sense that
the device couldn't perform at
60 frames per second regularly,
maybe it's an underpowered device.
Maybe it's got a lot
of background processes going on.
If you could scale that
back, throttle it back to
35 frames per second, people
would be a lot more
accepting eyes and minds would
be more accepting of that
than they would be of
60 frames per second, interspersed
with janky moments where it
goes to 35 frames per
second. I see. So consistently
slow. If I can be,
like I say, 24.97 consistently,
that's much better than being
60 and then five and
then 15. Exactly. And it's
interesting because I did hear
a little bit about some
things that the Chrome developers
are working on that might
help us do that in
the future. The frame timing
API, I believe Paul Lewis spoke
about it for a little
bit and it it's, it's
an API that's in the
works, but that means it
could be like, who knows.
It might be implemented tomorrow
kind of like a wheel
change in CSS, but it's
a frame timing API that
basically can measure how many
frames per second, that certain
period of time resulted in.
So you could like imagine
having a spinner on a
page using the frame timing
API to check how many
frames per second, that spinner
is running it. And then
using that logic say, well,
this person's a frames per
second were really low. So
we're going to throttle it
back to a 35 frames
per second animation, or, you
know, Oh, this is great.
We'll give them the full
experience or maybe, Oh, this
is terrible. We're just going
to not animate anything on
this page. That is wonderful.
I've heard people who've been
developing mobile sites for Android
for Asia's complained that while
the browser might say it
can handle the CSS, animations,
the browser can't render them
for anything. So you're basically
saying to that point of
intentionality that I intend this
animation to behave this way,
regardless of what the browse
respects say, if the reality
is I can't get my
30 or my 60 frames
a second, then I'm going
to use an entirely different
interaction model. Yeah. Or, you
know, just kind of gracefully
grade, the interactions you had
planned, like maybe they don't
need that parallax. And the
neat thing is, imagine that
you could also, like, I
want to hopefully build a
little library for this. If
this, as a tin magpie
project, release it into the
wild. If no one else
does once the, once the
frame timing API gets out
there, it would be nice
to tie that into something
like the battery life API.
So if somebody only has
20% of their juice left,
you're not, you know, providing
unnecessary repaints in their browser.
That would be so nice.
It just seems like we,
we, we, we spend all
this time now in our
brow and our devices, whether
it be an Android or
the new iOS eight, where
it says, this is using
this much battery, and this
is using that switch battery.
But I would be more
likely to go to a
mobile website that used less
battery life. Like, I don't
know if cnn.com isn't destroying
my battery life. Like they
might be using, they might
be using jQuery and not
CSS animations. They may be
on the CPU and not
the GPU. I'd like to
know those kinds of things.
And if this animation could,
could stop because I'm a,
you know, 2% battery and
I'm trying to get home,
then that'd be, that'd be
amazing. It would be. And
you know, just crazy wonderful
things are happening. I also
heard about project Ganesh, which
I it's cool because there
are some people who used
to work for game companies
who I know this because
we used to go there
game night, back in Raleigh,
before we moved to Portland,
but to work for Google,
Google on the rendering engine
now, and we're looking at
like back in the days
when people were first building
browsers, we thought about just
putting text on pages, right?
Nothing animates, unless they're scrolling.
Right? But now browsers are
having to think more like
game engines because now things
are more likely to animate,
not even when people are
scrolling, but just when they're
sitting still. So clever browser
vendors are looking at ways
that they can start offloading
more of that work to
the GPU, a very clever
animation library developers, especially at
certain inhouse, interactive agencies have
been using loopholes in a
web GL to go through
the GPU for a lot
of page. Rendering is pretty
fantastic. What people get up
to, to solve their own
problems. But at the Chrome
dev summit, it was exciting
because we heard about project
Ganesh. And how is it
like the Hindu God, goodness.
Yes. It's named for that
Hindu God, because I believe
the original team was in
India. Okay. And so basically
they're talking about doing a
hardware accelerated rasterization, which is
a slightly more niche part
of hardware accelerated rendering. So
anyway, it's, it's incredible because
they were promising in, in
like 60 frames per second
should not be a problem
like in another year or
so on mobile devices for
the Chrome team. That is
incredibly exciting from an animation
perspective, because a lot of
the complaints you hear about,
I don't want to use
animation because of performance. It's
not going to be a
problem. The more we use
animation, more browser vendors optimize
for a less state-based and
more interactive web. So it
seems like animation is coming
back in Vogue. We should
bring all of these flash
people back who've gone and
started their motorcycle repair shops
and saying, we need you
back here. We need your
principles of animation to return.
I think you'd definitely be
good to mind some of
those minds for what they
know. And they, they will
probably show up in weird
and unexpected ways going forward.
So people may be maybe
listening and saying, well, I
work on forms. I just
have buttons on my application.
You know, why would I
bring someone in to train
me and teach me about
these kinds of things? I
don't need an intro. Where
else would I use animation?
I actually hear that a
lot. Like, I'll be at
a conference and someone's like,
I loved your talk. And
it was so cool to
see what you did, but
man, I mean, all I
do is, you know, I
have this app and there
are some buttons, people push.
I want to say, Hey,
have you ever used the
Evernote app for native device?
Yeah, it's a great app.
It's great. Actually. It's great.
It is. The Evernote team
does a great job at
integrating animation with their, with,
with their designs. For instance,
there are three major States
in the Evernote app. There's,
you're either reading something, looking
for something or you're writing
something right? Evernote, every time
you switch between those tasks,
it animates you to the
new task. You want to
write something, the background fades
out and a piece of
paper pulls up in front
of you. It doesn't just
jump cuts you to a
page where you start typing
out input. A lot of
apps do that. A lot
of websites do that. So
here's something very simple. It's
forms E this is a,
an input form and it
has been animated into place.
I mean, it's interesting because
I think a lot when
the iPad first came out,
when iOS first came out,
you heard a lot of
young and old people say,
you know, I love it.
It's so intuitive. I love
it much more than I
love my computer. We have
so much research about how
animation cuts down on mental
processing time and keeps people
in their task flow by
offloading that sort of busy
work that in between busywork
to their, to their brains,
GPU the visual cortex that
when you're animating it thoughtfully,
deliberately, you're thinking about it.
You've got this wonderful quick
get out of your way
animation to take people from
one state into another. That's
what makes it feel more
useful and usable to them?
It wasn't that iOS was
well, I mean, I'm sure
it's designed and everything was
great, but perhaps the real
reason that we saw young
and old users cleaning and
love it so much was
because of that deliberate use
of animation that not only
the operating system used, but
also the app developers, Right?
Everything from going back to
your folders and mail, it
makes me think about even
like windows 95 or Mac
system seven, really the only
animation I can think of
was minimizing stuff, right? And
there was really no animation
anywhere else, other than minimizing
stuff, but in a, an
iPad or an Android tablet,
everything is animated. There's a
transition everywhere. You never get
a as you call a
jump cut. Exactly. And the
fascinating thing is there are
all these papers from like
MIT and such from back
in like the early and
mid nineties, where there was
an arms race between operating
systems to try to get,
to try to best each
other, having the perfect animated
interface so that those edge
markets of the young and
old would find it more
pleasant and useful to use
the webs. I mean, T
to use the operating system,
I think we're facing that
in web design right now,
because now finally, we can
animate things using HTML, CSS,
and JavaScript in ways that
previously were only possible using
native code For flash. It
seems like we're at the
beginning, you think probably of
a, of a Renaissance in
web animation. Well, I would
say we're in a Renaissance
of web design and we're
going to see a big
change in how people make
websites, probably similar to the
kind we saw with responsive
web design and responsible web
and the web going
forward from this point, onward
is not going to look
the way it did Five
years ago. Very cool. So
people can look@yourtalksandyourresourcesandhireyouandyourtrainingatrachelnaborsdotcomatrachelnabors.com. That's R
I C H E L
N a B O S.
You can also see my
company tin magpie that's tin
like the metal and magpie,
like theBird@tinmagpie.com. Very cool. Well,
thanks so much for sharing
all of your information and
knowledge about animation today. It's
been great talking with you,
Scott. Thanks for having me.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.